[Music]
basics with babish and my website
basicswithbapish.com are brought to you
by squarespace head there now to check
out all the recipes from the show
kitchen equipment lists and more
get 10 off your first squarespace order
by visiting squarespace.com
babish from websites and online stores
to marketing tools and analytics
squarespace is the all-in-one platform
to build a beautiful online presence and
run your business
alright folks so today for obvious
reasons we are raiding our pantries and
exploring the
humble canned chickpea or garbanzo bean
and
exploring a number of different
possibilities that lie in waits i'm
gonna sort of go in order of most
obvious to least obvious
first things first most recipes call for
draining and rinsing your chickpeas but
hang on to this liquid it is called
aquafaba which is latin for
vegan egg white replacer more on that
later because first up the most
obvious use for canned chickpeas hummus
a most flavorful and versatile condiment
in the bowl of a food processor goes one
can of dried and drained chickpeas along
with half a cup
each water olive oil and tahini if you
happen to have
fresh lemons go ahead and give one and a
half of those a squeeze
if not use a tablespoon and a half of
white vinegar or apple cider vinegar
three cloves of fresh garlic or one
teaspoon
of dried garlic three quarters of a
teaspoon of kosher salt and some
pre-ground cumin or if you can't find
yours go ahead and grind up some cumin
seeds to make
ground cumin a heaping teaspoon's worth
press go and that's it
the most simple and elegant of hummus
seeds
process for about 30 seconds until
completely smooth
and right about now would be the time to
add extra flavorings like roasted red
peppers or
olives or artichokes but however you
take your hummus go ahead and spoon it
into a bowl
cover with plastic wrap and let it hang
out in the fridge for at least an hour
until
completely chilled before enjoying
because next up we are making a great
topping for hummus
some crispy roasted chickpeas the first
and most important step of which
is to rinse and thoroughly dry each and
every chickpea
this should also help rub the sort of
skins off the chickpea which is going to
help them get a little bit crispier but
chickpea skin or no chickpea skin it's a
weird thing to say
anyway we are now spreading those out
onto a parchment lined baking sheet
picking off any extraneous skins if
that's your bag
it's 20 20 folks no judgment and then
it's time to prep these guys for the
oven first up we're gonna drizzle them
with about two tablespoons worth of
extra virgin olive oil sprinkle them
with salt and that's it roll these boys
around to coat them evenly spread them
out so they're not crowding each other
and
into a 350 degree fahrenheit oven they
go for 40 to 45 minutes
until they come out looking golden brown
and crispy and i don't know
excited this is the point when you can
season them with the seasoning of your
choice i'm going with a little bit of
curry powder and these guys will go on
to make an excellent topping for hummus
or soups or salads or
maybe most importantly just as a crunchy
healthy snack
once they've cooled completely of course
yeah that's too hot wouldn't it no
no i said once they've cooled completely
of course yeah i know you've learned
your lesson this time through
nope nope nope once they've cooled
whatever so
so far we've covered snacks and
condiments but what about a proper meal
made from chickpeas
for that we turn to chatta masala first
into a wide saute pen goes about two
tablespoons of olive oil heat it over
medium heat until shimmering adding half
a small
minced onion and sweating for about two
minutes until translucent around the
edges at which point we're going to add
two cloves of crushed garlic and then
some little sprinkles of spices how
about a half teaspoon of ground ginger
maybe a half teaspoon of ground turmeric
maybe a full teaspoon of ground
coriander seed and a half teaspoon of
ground cardamom
we're also going to add a tablespoon or
two of tomato paste
we're just gonna let all these flavors
and spices get to know each other over
medium heat for about a minute or until
extraordinarily fragrant then i'm gonna
add about a half a can of green chilies
you could also use
fresh bird's eye chilies and then about
a tablespoon of garam masala yes i know
i'm using pre-ground garam masala if you
want to know how to make it from scratch
click the link in the upper right hand
corner right now
otherwise we're adding a 14 ounce can of
crushed tomatoes and a can of drained
garbanzo beans where they shall stew for
10 to 15 minutes or until the garbanzo
beans are tender and the gravy has
thickened to a stew-like consistency
as always we're gonna season liberally
with a pinch of ks and a few twists of
fgbp give it a taste for seasoning and
then we're gonna serve it over a pile of
something i know y'all have stockpiled
long grain white rice and there you have
it an easy fast
nutritious flavorful and almost entirely
shelf-stable meal i know that i use some
fresh stuff like onions and garlic and
cilantro so i don't get yelled at but
you could swap most that out for their
dried counterparts in a pinch
all right so we've covered a condiment
snack and a meal now let's get into the
weirder side of garbanzo beans with
dessert
we're going to start by making some
meringues out of the liquid from one can
of garbanzo beans aka the aquafaba we're
dumping that into the bowl of a stand
mixer and using the wire whisk
attachment beginning to beat it as we
would egg whites on high speed
after about 10-15 minutes you're gonna
see them behave exactly as egg whites
would becoming fluffy and
stiff peaked at this point we're going
to slowly spoon in about two-thirds of a
cup of sugar letting each spoonful fully
incorporate and allowing the aquafaba to
become thick and glossy at this point
you can pretty much treat it the way you
would a real meringue you could make a
pavlova or a lemon meringue pie or just
pipe them out into cute little vegan
meringue kisses some recipes for which
specify that you bake them at 250
degrees fahrenheit for about two hours
you're going to want to go ahead and not
do this so you don't end up with these
burnt little turds
at first you're going to try to convince
yourself they're fine they're just like
extra toasty cheez-its but then you're
gonna remember that extra toasty
cheez-its are gross and so are these
so you're gonna try again this time
baking at 200 degrees fahrenheit about
an hour and a half for slightly chewy
meringues two hours for light and crispy
meringues and i gotta tell you these
things are pretty fascinating they taste
almost exactly like real meringue they
don't taste
beany at all and with the help of some
vanilla or mint or almond extract they
can taste like whatever you want
i know that this is kind of a simple
recipe but it's really cool that you can
make a simple sweet little snack like
this with nothing more than
a can of bean juice and some sugar but
what if you want to make something a
little more complicated like chocolate
chip cookies made entirely from pantry
ingredients
well for that we're gonna need a quarter
cup of aquafaba half a cup of white
sugar and half a cup of brown sugar that
we're gonna add to the aquafaba as we
beat it on high speed then we're also
going to beat in half a cup of vegetable
oil
maybe not on super high speed so it
doesn't splash oil all over your
favorite henley and then just go ahead
and beat until fully incorporated
adding volume to the aquafaba like this
early on is gonna help give our cookies
structure
i think now much like with normal
chocolate chip cookies we're gonna
combine the dry ingredients separately
that's a teaspoon of baking soda and
three quarters of a teaspoon of kosher
salt added to about two cups or nine
ounces of
all-purpose flour tiny whisked to a
state of homogeneity and added to the
wet ingredients
then we're just gonna paddle these until
just starting to come together at which
point we're gonna add our desired
mix-ins chief among which is some
chopped chocolate i know this dough is
looking a little dry and crumbly right
now but you'll see later how that
affects our cookies final texture give
it one last mix to make sure that all
the flour is saturated and then it's
time to chop up whatever chocolate you
can find in the house
you could of course use chocolate chips
but chopped chocolate just provides a
better visual and textural variety so
once we've chopped up i don't know about
five ounces worth of chocolate we're
going to add that to the mix
massaging in with our hands so as to
ensure even dispersal
now not only do you have some safe to
eat cookie dough you could also
theoretically ball it up and bake it
into cookies so onto a parchment lined
rim baking sheet they go i'm going for
balls that are a little taller than they
are
wide i was anticipating these guys
spreading out pretty wildly which they
did not end up doing so you can opt for
more traditional round
balls into a preheated 350 degree
fahrenheit oven they go for about 10 to
15 minutes until lightly browned and
looking
pretty okay but pretty vegan that being
said they were not at all bad
after letting them cool on a wire rack
for about 10 minutes they've passed the
pull apart test with flying colors
and they're plenty sweet and soft and
chocolatey and cake-like
and no they do not taste like beans they
do taste a little
vegetal but only like 10 the other 90
pure cookie but i wanted a softer
chewier cookie not one that was so
cake-like so i added a quarter cup each
vegetable oil and aquafaba to the
original cookie batter which not only
darkened it it made it probably a little
too oily to the point where i was gonna
have to let it solidify in the fridge
before forming it into cookies
not gonna beat myself up about it just
experimenting with bean juice during a
quarantine so after a half hour stint in
the fridge the cookie dough emerges
ready to be formed into balls
which again i'm going to make a little
bit taller than they are wide because i
have a feeling these guys are really
going to spread out
same oven temp same bake time and out
they emerge looking a lot more
like cookies so you can see how
adjusting the oil and aquafaba content
can affect your final product
and for me this latter version much more
closely strikes the cookie cords in my
heart let's see how they pass the pull
apart test i can't seem to nail a
melty piece of chocolate to save my life
but more importantly the taste test
they taste like a cookie an ever so
slightly weird cookie but a cookie
nonetheless and one made entirely with
pantry ingredients i hope you guys try
some of these recipes for yourselves i
hope you're staying safe and healthy out
there and i hope you're also lucky
enough to work from home in your pjs you
can expect more pantry episodes in the
coming weeks and
now more than ever keep cooking i will
if you will
this episode and many others have been
sponsored by squarespace because they've
been an amazing partner in both bringing
this show and my websites to life
they've got a really intuitive easy to
use
platform that made it super easy for
someone like me who's never done web
design
ever they have templates they do domains
they have really good customer service
it's basically a one-stop shop
for building a really slick website if
you want to try it for yourself you can
start your free trial today by visiting
squarespace.com
babish to get 10 off your first purchase
[Music]
you